UI Builder 17.1.0 documentation updates on EF Core and Async APIs; up… (#7866)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 17/umbraco-ui-builder/advanced/async-apis.md

---
description: Async API Changes
---

> With the release of UI Builder `17.1.0` and the newly added support for EF Core, the entire data access pipeline - from web API controllers through the service layer to repositories and database extensions - has been converted to async-first, with sync methods preserved as obsolete, and scheduled for removal in V19.

Reviewer: Suggestion to break a long sentence into multiple shorter ones:

```suggestion
UI Builder `17.1.0` adds EF Core support, converting the data access pipeline to async-first. This update impacts API controllers, services, repositories, and database extensions. Existing sync methods are now obsolete and scheduled for removal in V19.
```
